Okay, Just to remind you of
some of the terminology.
The text that you feed into
the model is called the prompt,
the act of generating text
is known as inference,
and the output text is
known as the completion.
The full amount of text or
the memory that is available
to use for the prompt is
called the context window.
Although the example here
shows the model performing well,
you'll frequently encounter
situations where the model
doesn't produce the
outcome that you
want on the first try.
You may have to
revise the language
in your prompt or
the way that it's
written several times to get
the model to behave in
the way that you want.
This work to develop and improve
the prompt is known as
prompt engineering.
This is a big topic.
But one powerful strategy to get
the model to produce
better outcomes is to
include examples of
the task that you want
the model to carry out
inside the prompt.
Providing examples inside
the context window
is called in-context learning.
Let's take a look at
what this term means.
With in-context
learning, you can
help LLMs learn more
about the task being
asked by including examples
or additional data
in the prompt.
Here is a concrete example.
Within the prompt shown here,
you ask the model to classify
the sentiment of a review.
So whether the
review of this movie
is positive or negative,
the prompt consists
of the instruction,
"Classify this review,"
followed by some context,
which in this case is
the review text itself,
and an instruction to produce
the sentiment at the end.
This method, including your
input data within the prompt,
is called zero-shot inference.
The largest of the LLMs are
surprisingly good at this,
grasping the task to be
completed and returning
a good answer.
In this example,
the model correctly
identifies the
sentiment as positive.
Smaller models, on
the other hand,
can struggle with this.
Here's an example of a
completion generated by GPT-2,
an earlier smaller version
of the model that
powers ChatGPT.
As you can see, the model
doesn't follow the instruction.
While it does generate text
with some relation
to the prompt,
the model can't figure
out the details
of the task and does not
identify the sentiment.
This is where
providing an example
within the prompt can
improve performance.
Here you can see
that the prompt text
is longer and now starts with
a completed example that
demonstrates the tasks to be
carried out to the model.
After specifying that the model
should classify the review,
the prompt text includes
a sample review.
I loved this movie,
followed by a completed
sentiment analysis.
In this case, the
review is positive.
Next, the prompt states
the instruction
again and includes
the actual input review
that we want the
model to analyze.
You pass this new longer
prompt to the smaller model,
which now has a better chance
of understanding the task you're
specifying and the format of
the response that you want.
The inclusion of
a single example
is known as one-shot inference,
in contrast to the zero-shot
prompt you supplied earlier.
Sometimes a single
example won't be
enough for the model to learn
what you want it to do.
So you can extend
the idea of giving
a single example to
include multiple examples.
This is known as
few-shot inference.
Here, you're working with
an even smaller
model that failed
to carry out good
sentiment analysis
with one-shot inference.
Instead, you're going to try
few-shot inference by
including a second example.
This time, a negative review,
including a mix of examples with
different output
classes can help
the model to understand
what it needs to do.
You pass the new
prompts to the model.
And this time it understands
the instruction and
generates a completion that
correctly identifies
the sentiment of
the review as negative.
So to recap, you can engineer
your prompts to encourage the
model to learn by examples.
While the largest
models are good at
zero-shot inference
with no examples,
smaller models can
benefit from one-shot or
few-shot inference that include
examples of the
desired behavior.
But remember the context window
because you have a limit
on the amount of
in-context learning
that you can pass
into the model.
Generally, if you
find that your model
isn't performing well when, say,
including five or six examples,
you should try fine-tuning
your model instead.
Fine-tuning performs
additional training
on the model using
new data to make it more
capable of the task you
want it to perform.
You'll explore fine-tuning in
detail in week 2 of this course.
As larger and larger
models have been trained,
it's become clear
that the ability
of models to perform
multiple tasks
and how well they
perform those tasks
depends strongly on the
scale of the model.
As you heard earlier
in the lesson,
models with more
parameters are able to
capture more understanding
of language.
The largest models
are surprisingly good
at zero-shot inference
and are able to
infer and successfully complete
many tasks that they were
not specifically
trained to perform.
In contrast, smaller models are
generally only good at a
small number of tasks.
Typically, those that are
similar to the task that
they were trained on.
You may have to try out
a few models to find the
right one for your use case.
Once you've found the model
that is working for you,
there are a few settings that
you can experiment with to
influence the
structure and style
of the completions that
the model generates.
Let's take a look
at some of these
configuration settings
in the next video.